Add Five Years of Rust post (#580)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust.md

---
layout: post
title: "Five Years of Rust"
author: The Rust Core Team
---

With all that's going on in the world you'd be forgiven for forgetting that as
of today, it has been five years since we released 1.0 in 2015! Rust has changed
a lot these past five years, so we wanted reflect back on all of our
contributors' work over these past five years.

> **If this is the first time you're reading about Rust;** Rust is a general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If this is the first time you're reading about Rust:** Rust is a general
```

 --> src/lib.rs:5:23
  |
3 |     let y = &mut x;
  |             ------ mutable borrow occurs here
4 |
5 |     println!("{} {}", x, y);
  |                       ^  - mutable borrow later used here
  |                       |
  |                       immutable borrow occurs here

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0502`.
error: could not compile `error-messages`.

To learn more, run the command again with --verbose.
```

</details>

![A terminal screenshot of the 1.43.0 error message.][borrow-error-1.43.0]

[borrow-error-1.2.0]:  /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/borrow-error-1.2.0.png
[borrow-error-1.43.0]: /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/borrow-error-1.43.0.png
[help-error-1.2.0]:    /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/help-error-1.2.0.png
[help-error-1.43.0]:   /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/help-error-1.43.0.png
[trait-error-1.2.0]:   /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/trait-error-1.2.0.png
[trait-error-1.43.0]:  /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/trait-error-1.43.0.png

## Quotes from the teams
Of course we can't cover every change that has happened. So we reached out and

> asked some of our leads what changes their most proud of;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asked some of our leads what changes their most proud of:
```

myth just five years ago.

#### 2017

**[1.15] — Derive Procedural Macros** Derive Macros allow you to create powerful
and extensive strongly typed APIs without all the boilerplate. This was the
first version of Rust you could use libraries like `serde` or `diesel`'s
derive macros on stable.

**[1.17] — Rustbuild** One of the biggest improvements for our contributors to
the language was moving our build system from the initial `make` based system
to using cargo. This has opened up `rust-lang/rust` to being a lot easier for
members and newcomers alike to build and contribute to the project.

**[1.20] — Associated Constants** Previously constants could only be associated
with a module. In 1.20 we stabilised associating constants on struct, enums,
and importantly traits. Making it easier to add rich sets of preset values for
types in your API, such as common IP addresses or interesting numbers.

#### 2018

**[1.24] — Incremental Compilation** Before 1.24 when you made a change in your
library rustc would have to re-compile all of the code. Now rustc is a lot
smarter about caching as much as possible and only needing to re-generate
what's needed.

> **[1.26] — Existential Types** The addition of `impl Trait` gives you expressive

Reviewer 2: This title should probably be `impl Trait` rather than existential types, since we never really called impl Trait that and because explicit existential types in associated types exists.

Reviewer 3: Agreed.

dynamic APIs with the benefits and performance of static dispatch.

**[1.28] — Global Allocators** Previously you were restricted to using the
allocator that rust provided. With the global allocator API you can now
customise your allocator to one that suits your needs. This was an important
step in enabling the creation of the `alloc` library, another subset of the
standard library containing only the parts of std that need an allocator like
`Vec` or `String`. Now it's easier than ever to use even more parts of the
standard library on a variety of systems.

**[1.31] — 2018 edition** The release of the 2018 edition was easily our biggest
release since 1.0, adding a collection of syntax changes and improvements to
writing Rust written in a completely backwards compatible fashion, allowing
libraries built with different editions to seamlessly work together.

- **Non-Lexical Lifetimes** A huge improvement to Rust's borrow checker,
  allowing it to accept more verifiable safe code.
- **Module System Improvements** Large UX improvements to how we define and
  use modules.
- **Const Functions** Const functions allow you to run and evaluate Rust code
  at compile time.

> - **Rustfmt** A new code formatting tool built specifically for Rust.

Reviewer 2: Can we call these rustfmt and clippy 1.0? The tools themselves had been around for a while before.

- **Clippy** Rust's linter for catching common mistakes. Clippy makes it a lot
  easier to make sure that your code is not only safe but correct.
- **Rustfix** With all the syntax changes, we knew we wanted to provide the
  tooling to make the transition as easy as possible. Now when changes are
  required to Rust's syntax they're just a `cargo fix` away from being resolved.

#### 2019

**[1.34] — Alternative Crate Registries** As Rust is used more and more in
production, there is a greater need to be able to host and use your projects
in non-public spaces, while cargo has always allowed remote git dependencies,
with Alternative Registries your organisation can easily build and share your
own registry of crates that can be used in your projects like they were
on crates.io.

**[1.39] — Async/Await** The stabilisation of the async/await keywords for
handling Futures was one of the major milestones to making async programming
in Rust a first class citizen. Even just six months after its release the
async programming has blossomed into a diverse and performant ecosystem.

> 

Reviewer 2: Has nothing happened this year? :-( It would be cool to have at least one new thing for 2020

Reviewer 3: I feel like we stabilized slice patterns, maybe some other pattern additions? We've also seen a lot of progress around const evaluation? But maybe those things didn't hit stable releases yet.

Author: There's been three major releases this year [1.41], [1.42], and [1.43]. My thought process when deciding which changes to include was "Would this be interesting to someone who has never written Rust? Would reading about the feature make someone interested in trying Rust?". These past three releases haven't really had that. The main additions are in 1.42 where as @nikomatsakis said we stabilised slice patterns and added improved unwrap error line reporting. My initial thought was that those two features were too small (relatively), if other people feel differently on what to add from these releases I'm happy to add something.

[1.41]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/01/30/Rust-1.41.0.html
[1.42]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/03/12/Rust-1.42.html
[1.43]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/04/23/Rust-1.43.0.html

Reviewer 2: They probably are too small, but if that's it, then I think I would put them in just so we have *something* for 2020

Reviewer: I have kind of mixed feelings here. I think it's kind of nice that we haven't had any really major changes this year, especially given the "rate of change of Rust" discussions. But on the other hand, "here's some good news from 2020" is a distressingly rare sentence, and maybe we can provide some such good news. Slice patterns really are pretty cool!

src/lib.rs:3:24: 3:43 error: the trait `core::ops::FnMut<(char,)>` is not implemented for the type `collections::string::String` [E0277]
src/lib.rs:3     println!("{:?}", s.find("".to_owned()));
                                    ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
note: in expansion of format_args!
<std macros>:2:25: 2:56 note: expansion site
<std macros>:1:1: 2:62 note: in expansion of print!
<std macros>:3:1: 3:54 note: expansion site
<std macros>:1:1: 3:58 note: in expansion of println!
src/lib.rs:3:5: 3:45 note: expansion site
src/lib.rs:3:24: 3:43 error: the trait `core::ops::FnOnce<(char,)>` is not implemented for the type `collections::string::String` [E0277]
src/lib.rs:3     println!("{:?}", s.find("".to_owned()));
                                    ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
note: in expansion of format_args!
<std macros>:2:25: 2:56 note: expansion site
<std macros>:1:1: 2:62 note: in expansion of print!
<std macros>:3:1: 3:54 note: expansion site
<std macros>:1:1: 3:58 note: in expansion of println!
src/lib.rs:3:5: 3:45 note: expansion site
error: aborting due to 2 previous errors
Could not compile `error-messages`.

> To learn more, run the command again with --verbose.

Reviewer 2: Do we need text and images for the error messages? Seems a bit like overkill

Author: @nrc It's a compromise, as neither representation is ideal.

The text based versions don't show the work that has gone into colour and emphasis as part of the error message, and have the problem on mobile where you can only see half (vertically) of the text at a time.

<img width="386" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-06 at 09 24 49" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4464295/81147905-88f92480-8f7b-11ea-90d0-e8dd3fd0ae50.png">

The images do show the colour font work, but can also be hard to read on mobile because the images are landscape and most view the web in portrait. Also if you rely on a screenreader you would otherwise have no way of telling what the error message looks like. Having both lets the reader choose the representation that most readable best for them.

<img width="343" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-06 at 09 22 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4464295/81148378-76331f80-8f7c-11ea-9bb5-24c02cb14058.png">

 --> src/lib.rs:5:23
  |
3 |     let y = &mut x;
  |             ------ mutable borrow occurs here
4 |
5 |     println!("{} {}", x, y);
  |                       ^  - mutable borrow later used here
  |                       |
  |                       immutable borrow occurs here

error: aborting due to previous error

For more information about this error, try `rustc --explain E0502`.
error: could not compile `error-messages`.

To learn more, run the command again with --verbose.
```

</details>

![A terminal screenshot of the 1.43.0 error message.][borrow-error-1.43.0]

[borrow-error-1.2.0]:  /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/borrow-error-1.2.0.png
[borrow-error-1.43.0]: /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/borrow-error-1.43.0.png
[help-error-1.2.0]:    /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/help-error-1.2.0.png
[help-error-1.43.0]:   /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/help-error-1.43.0.png
[trait-error-1.2.0]:   /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/trait-error-1.2.0.png
[trait-error-1.43.0]:  /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/trait-error-1.43.0.png

## Quotes from the teams
Of course we can't cover every change that has happened. So we reached out and

> asked some of our leads what changes their most proud of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asked some of our teams what changes they are most proud of:
```

[ides]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/ides
[ewg]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/wgs/embedded
[release]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/release
[miri]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler#miri

## The Community

As the language has changed and grown a lot in these past five years so has its
community. There's been so many great projects written in Rust, and Rust's
presence in production has grown exponentially. We wanted to share some
statistics on just how much Rust has grown.

- Rust has been voted ["Most Loved Programming"][mlp] every year in the past
  four Stack Overflow developer surveys since it went 1.0.
- We have served over 160TB of different versions of the compiler, tooling, and
  documentation in April alone!
- In the same month we served over 22TB of crates to 227 million
  requests on crates.io.

[mlp]: https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019#most-loved-dreaded-and-wanted

When Rust turned turned 1.0 you could count the number of companies that were
using it in production on one hand. Today, it is being used by hundreds of
tech companies with some of the largest tech companies such as Apple, Dropbox,

> Facebook, Google, and Microsoft choosing to use Rust for its performance,

Reviewer 2: + Amazon

a lot these past five years, so we wanted reflect back on all of our
contributors' work over these past five years.

**If this is the first time you're reading about Rust:** Rust is a general
purpose programming language empowering everyone to build reliable and efficient
software. Rust can be built to run anywhere in the stack, whether as the kernel
for your operating system or your next web app. It is built entirely by an open
and diverse community of individuals, primarily volunteers who generously donate
their time and expertise to help make Rust what it is.

## Major Changes since 1.0

#### 2015

**[1.2] — Parallel Codegen** Compile time improvements are large theme to every
release of Rust, and it's hard to imagine that there was a short time where
Rust had no parallel code generation at all.

**[1.3]— The Rustnomicon** Our first release of the fantastic "Rustnomicon", a
book that explores Unsafe Rust and its surrounding topics has become a great
resource for anyone looking to learn and understand one of the hardest aspects
of the language.

**[1.4] — Windows MSVC Tier 1 Support** The first tier 1 platform promotion was

> bringing native support for 64-bit Windows using the Microsoft Visual Compiler

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
bringing native support for 64-bit Windows using the Microsoft Visual C++ toolchain
```

(MSVC). Before 1.4 you needed to also have MinGW (a third party GNU environment)
installed in order to use and compile your Rust programs. Rust's Windows support
is one of the biggest improvements these past five years. Just recently
Microsoft [announced a public preview of their official Rust support for the
WinRT API!][winrt] Now it's easier than ever build top quality native and cross
platform apps.

[winrt]: https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2020/04/30/rust-winrt-public-preview/

**[1.5] — Cargo Install** The addition of being able to build Rust binaries
alongside cargo's pre-existing plugin support has given birth to an entire
ecosystem of apps, utilities, and developer tools that the community has come
to love and depend on. Quite a few of the commands cargo has today were first
plugins that the community built and shared on crates.io!

#### 2016

**[1.6] — Libcore** Libcore is a subset of the standard library that only

> contains APIs that don't require allocation or operating system level feature

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
contains APIs that don't require allocation or operating system level features
```

> . The stabilisation of libcore brought the ability to compile Rust was one of

Reviewer 5: there's something missing here, "the ability to compile Rust for ...."

error: could not compile `error-messages`.

To learn more, run the command again with --verbose.
```

</details>

![A terminal screenshot of the 1.43.0 error message.][borrow-error-1.43.0]

[borrow-error-1.2.0]:  /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/borrow-error-1.2.0.png
[borrow-error-1.43.0]: /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/borrow-error-1.43.0.png
[help-error-1.2.0]:    /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/help-error-1.2.0.png
[help-error-1.43.0]:   /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/help-error-1.43.0.png
[trait-error-1.2.0]:   /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/trait-error-1.2.0.png
[trait-error-1.43.0]:  /images/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust/trait-error-1.43.0.png

## Quotes from the teams
Of course we can't cover every change that has happened. So we reached out and
asked some of our teams what changes they are most proud of:

> For rustdoc, the big things were:
> * The automatically generated documentation for blanket implementations
> * The search itself and its optimizations (last one being to convert it into JSON)
> * The possibility to test more accurately doc code blocks "compile_fail,
>   should_panic, allow_fail"

> > * Supporting blanket impls.

Reviewer 5: this point is duplicated

Reviewer 6: It's indeed duplicated with the first element of the list. I think we should replace it with the fact that the doc tests are now put into their own files.

Author: I've updated it now, let me know if it looks good.

Reviewer 6: Thanks, it's better indeed. Just a little rewording though: "Doc tests can now be put into their own files." -> "Doc tests are now put into their own files."

Author: @GuillaumeGomez Can you explain what you mean by "Doc tests are now put into their own files."? I don't really follow what that does, I initially assumed it meant that you could put your doc tests in separate files but now I feel like that's not what this is?

Reviewer 6: Sure, sorry, I should have precised: now we generate separate binaries. But I'm not sure it's worth talking about it...

Author: @GuillaumeGomez Oh no I think we should still include it if you want. I went with "Doc tests are now generated as their own seperate binaries." to clarify, does that work for you?

Reviewer 6: Sounds good to me, thanks!

---
layout: post
title: "Five Years of Rust"
author: The Rust Core Team
---

With all that's going on in the world you'd be forgiven for forgetting that as
of today, it has been five years since we released 1.0 in 2015! Rust has changed
a lot these past five years, so we wanted reflect back on all of our

> contributors' work over these past five years.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
contributors' work since the stabilization of the language.
```

Can we avoid repeating "past five years"?

> **If this is the first time you're reading about Rust:** Rust is a general

Author: Why does it feel weird to you? I'm not sure that the comparison to release posts is fair.  I feel  (and hope) that this post has much a broader audience than the typical release posts. I'm more trying to explain and give context around the organisation and community that has grown project more than the actual software itself.

The choice to put emphasis, is so that if you're someone who's never heard of Rust and you land on this page, you see a short paragraph that stands out and is deliberately targeted at you, that (hopefully) gives enough context and makes you want to read the rest of the article, and if you're someone who's a regular reader or Rust user, you read that one sentence and you know can skip the rest of the paragraph and move on.

Without the emphasis I feel that the paragraph the background fades into looking like a second paragraph to the introduction, which it really isn't.

### With Emphasis
<img width="881" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-07 at 15 09 31" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4464295/81300440-f2f6f400-9077-11ea-8c5e-01a81d68485d.png">

### Without Emphasis
<img width="865" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-07 at 15 37 38" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4464295/81301019-c8f20180-9078-11ea-8d27-b2847c1845a4.png">

> **If this is the first time you're reading about Rust:** Rust is a general

Reviewer 8: I'm fine without bolding text.

> **If this is the first time you're reading about Rust:** Rust is a general

Reviewer 7: Oh, I should've explained myself better, sorry!

I'd remove the whole "If this is the first time you're reading about Rust:" text. I'm not exactly sure *why*, but it feels weird to me.

purpose programming language empowering everyone to build reliable and efficient
software. Rust can be built to run anywhere in the stack, whether as the kernel
for your operating system or your next web app. It is built entirely by an open
and diverse community of individuals, primarily volunteers who generously donate
their time and expertise to help make Rust what it is.

## Major Changes since 1.0

#### 2015

> **[1.2] — Parallel Codegen** Compile time improvements are large theme to every

Reviewer 9: As a matter of style/typesetting, I feel like there should be *something* between the paragraph title and the text after it. In my own writing, I use a period (`.`) for this purpose; sometimes `:` can also do.

But I can understand if others disagree, just wanted to bring it up.

release of Rust, and it's hard to imagine that there was a short time where
Rust had no parallel code generation at all.

> **[1.3] — The Rustnomicon** Our first release of the fantastic "Rustnomicon", a

Reviewer 9: AFAIK the name is "Rust**o**nomicon"

resource for anyone looking to learn and understand one of the hardest aspects
of the language.

**[1.4] — Windows MSVC Tier 1 Support** The first tier 1 platform promotion was
bringing native support for 64-bit Windows using the Microsoft Visual C++ toolchain
(MSVC). Before 1.4 you needed to also have MinGW (a third party GNU environment)
installed in order to use and compile your Rust programs. Rust's Windows support
is one of the biggest improvements these past five years. Just recently
Microsoft [announced a public preview of their official Rust support for the
WinRT API!][winrt] Now it's easier than ever build top quality native and cross
platform apps.

[winrt]: https://blogs.windows.com/windowsdeveloper/2020/04/30/rust-winrt-public-preview/

**[1.5] — Cargo Install** The addition of being able to build Rust binaries
alongside cargo's pre-existing plugin support has given birth to an entire
ecosystem of apps, utilities, and developer tools that the community has come
to love and depend on. Quite a few of the commands cargo has today were first
plugins that the community built and shared on crates.io!

#### 2016

> **[1.6] — Libcore** Libcore is a subset of the standard library that only

Reviewer 9: I find the capitalization odd here. At least in the text, maybe `libcore` in code font would make more sense (similar to `cdylib` below)?

contains APIs that don't require allocation or operating system level features.

> The stabilisation of libcore brought the ability to compile Rust with no allocation

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
The stabilization of libcore brought the ability to compile Rust with no allocation
```
Seems we use US English elsewhere, so this is for consistency.

[1.4]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/10/29/Rust-1.4.html
[1.5]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/12/10/Rust-1.5.html
[1.6]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/01/21/Rust-1.6.html
[1.10]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/07/07/Rust-1.10.html
[1.12]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/09/29/Rust-1.12.html
[1.13]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/11/10/Rust-1.13.html
[1.14]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/12/22/Rust-1.14.html
[1.15]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2017/02/02/Rust-1.15.html
[1.17]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2017/04/27/Rust-1.17.html
[1.20]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2017/08/31/Rust-1.20.html
[1.24]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/02/15/Rust-1.24.html
[1.26]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/05/10/Rust-1.26.html
[1.28]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/08/02/Rust-1.28.html
[1.31]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/12/06/Rust-1.31-and-rust-2018.html
[1.34]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2019/04/11/Rust-1.34.0.html
[1.39]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2019/11/07/Rust-1.39.0.html

## Error Diagnostics

One thing that we haven't mentioned much is how much Rust's error messages and
diagnostics have improved since 1.0. But they have improved so much over these

> past five years, looking at older error messages now feels like looking a

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
past five years, looking at older error messages now feels like looking at a
```

> different language.

Reviewer 9: The "but" part here made me stumble while reading. It's not really a contrast to the previous point, but an affirmation! I'd probably just drop that part, so have something like

> One thing that we haven't mentioned much is how much Rust's error messages and
diagnostics have improved since 1.0. Looking at older error messages now feels like looking a
different language.

We’ve highlighted a couple of examples that best showcase just how much we’ve
improved showing users where they made mistakes and importantly help them
understand why it doesn’t work and teach them how they can fix it.

##### First Example (Traits)
```rust
use std::io::Write;

fn trait_obj(w: &Write) {
    generic(w);
}

fn generic<W: Write>(_w: &W) {}
```

<details>
 <summary>1.2.0 Error Message</summary>

```
   Compiling error-messages v0.1.0 (file:///Users/usr/src/rust/error-messages)
src/lib.rs:6:5: 6:12 error: the trait `core::marker::Sized` is not implemented for the type `std::io::Write` [E0277]
src/lib.rs:6     generic(w);
                 ^~~~~~~
src/lib.rs:6:5: 6:12 note: `std::io::Write` does not have a constant size known at compile-time
src/lib.rs:6     generic(w);
                 ^~~~~~~
error: aborting due to previous error
Could not compile `error-messages`.

To learn more, run the command again with --verbose.
```

</details>

> ![A terminal screenshot of the 1.2.0 error message.][trait-error-1.2.0]

Reviewer 9: These pictures 404 in [the preview](https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/blob/a0dab5676443cfe8137c1ebd5ad76a091ade2570/posts/2020-05-15-five-years-of-rust.md), but maybe that is expected?

Author: Yep, it’s a limitation since the current structure requires them in a separate folder that wouldn’t be reachable in the pre-rendered markdown. You can see the images in the top post behind a disclosure though.

> experience for their editor of choice. Five years ago, "writing Rust" meant
> using old school Vim/Emacs setup.
>
> — Aleksey Kladov ([IDEs and editors][ides])

> For me that would be: Adding first class support for popular embedded
> architectures and achieving a striving ecosystem to make micro controller
> development with Rust an easy and safe, yet fun experience.
>
> — Daniel Egger ([Embedded WG][ewg])

> The release team has only been around since (roughly) early 2018, but even in
> that time, we've landed ~40000 commits just in rust-lang/rust without any
> significant regressions in stable.
>
> Considering how quickly we're improving the compiler and standard libraries, I
> think that's really impressive (though of course the release team is not the
> sole contributor here). Overall, I've found that the release team has done an
> excellent job of managing to scale to the increasing traffic on issue
> trackers, PRs being filed, etc.
>
> — Mark Rousskov ([Release][release])

> Within the last 3 years we managed to turn Miri from an experimental
> interpreter into a practical tool for exploring language design and finding

> > bugs in real code -- a great combination of PL theory and practice.  On the

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
> bugs in real code—a great combination of PL theory and practice.  On the
```

> theoretical side we have [Stacked Borrows], the most concrete proposal for a
> Rust aliasing model so far.
>

> > On the practical side, while initially we had to prompt maintainers to add

Reviewer 9: The paragraph break is weird here, it leaves the first paragraph without a coherent single point. If you want to split my quote into two paragraphs, IMO doing so *before* "On the theoretical side" makes more sense. Then the first paragraph is intro and the second paragraph lists the two kinds of use Miri saw.

> > On the practical side, while initially we had to prompt maintainers to add
> > Miri checking to a few key libraries, recently we saw a great uptake of people
> > using Miri to [find and fix bugs] in various crates, and a similar uptake in

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
> On the practical side, while initially only a few key libraries were checked in
> Miri by us, recently we saw a great uptake of people using Miri to
> [find and fix bugs] in their own crates and dependencies, and a similar uptake in
```
I'm worried otherwise it sounds too much like we were force-feeding people. ;)

> contributors improving Miri e.g. by adding support for file system access,
> unwinding, and concurrency.
>

> > — Ralf Jung ([Miri])

Reviewer 9: This links to the Miri team page, right? Should we have a link to the Miri repo at https://github.com/rust-lang/miri/ as well? I expect many people will not have heard of Miri before, and then that would be the page they need to get to to figure out how to install and use Miri.

[stacked borrows]: https://github.com/rust-lang/unsafe-code-guidelines/blob/master/wip/stacked-borrows.md
[find and fix bugs]:  https://github.com/rust-lang/miri/#bugs-found-by-miri

[rustdoc]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/rustdoc
[ides]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/ides
[ewg]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/wgs/embedded
[release]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/release
[miri]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/compiler#miri
[language]: https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/lang

## The Community

As the language has changed and grown a lot in these past five years so has its
community. There's been so many great projects written in Rust, and Rust's
presence in production has grown exponentially. We wanted to share some
statistics on just how much Rust has grown.

- Rust has been voted ["Most Loved Programming"][mlp] every year in the past
  four Stack Overflow developer surveys since it went 1.0.
- We have served over 2.25 Petabytes (1PB = 1,000 TB) of different versions of the
  compiler, tooling, and documentation this year alone!
- In the same time we have served over 170TB of crates to roughly 1.8 billion

>   requests on crates.io.

Author: Would it be fair to say. "…and our monthly download usage doubled every month this year."

>   requests on crates.io.

Reviewer 7: Well, it didn't double every month. The egress this April was double the egress of last April.

>   requests on crates.io.

Author: Oh I see what you meant now. So it would better to say "…and our monthly downloads in 2020 so far have been double what they were 2019"?

>   requests on crates.io.

Reviewer 7: I'd write "...requests on crates.io, doubling the monthly traffic compared to last year."

  feature that greatly improves the expressivity of pattern matching
  with slices.

[1.2]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/08/06/Rust-1.2.html
[1.3]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/09/17/Rust-1.3.html
[1.4]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/10/29/Rust-1.4.html
[1.5]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2015/12/10/Rust-1.5.html
[1.6]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/01/21/Rust-1.6.html
[1.10]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/07/07/Rust-1.10.html
[1.12]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/09/29/Rust-1.12.html
[1.13]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/11/10/Rust-1.13.html
[1.14]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2016/12/22/Rust-1.14.html
[1.15]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2017/02/02/Rust-1.15.html
[1.17]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2017/04/27/Rust-1.17.html
[1.20]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2017/08/31/Rust-1.20.html
[1.24]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/02/15/Rust-1.24.html
[1.26]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/05/10/Rust-1.26.html
[1.28]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/08/02/Rust-1.28.html
[1.31]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2018/12/06/Rust-1.31-and-rust-2018.html
[1.34]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2019/04/11/Rust-1.34.0.html
[1.39]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2019/11/07/Rust-1.39.0.html

> 

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
[1.42]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/03/12/Rust-1.42.html
```

a lot these past five years, so we wanted reflect back on all of our
contributors' work since the stabilization of the language.

Rust is a general purpose programming language empowering everyone to build
reliable and efficient software. Rust can be built to run anywhere in the stack,
whether as the kernel for your operating system or your next web app. It is built
entirely by an open and diverse community of individuals, primarily volunteers who
generously donate their time and expertise to help make Rust what it is.

## Major Changes since 1.0

#### 2015

**[1.2] — Parallel Codegen:** Compile time improvements are large theme to every
release of Rust, and it's hard to imagine that there was a short time where
Rust had no parallel code generation at all.

> **[1.3] — The Rustonomicon:** Our first release of the fantastic "Rustnomicon", a

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
**[1.3] — The Rustonomicon:** Our first release of the fantastic "Rustonomicon", a
```
